              MDC DEBUGGER 1.0 DOCUMENTATION


        This program is prom resident and resides in a 2708 eprom
placed in the fourth prom slot on the MCB.  This program is intended
as a tool for the debug technician in troubleshooting malfunctioning
MDC boards at a system level.  It allows the user to read and write
specified sectors of the diskette and display the results.  It also 
gives move definitive error messages than the standard 'DISK ERROR'
that is usually found.
        

I.      HARDWARE

        A known good MCB with the standard 3K monitor proms is required to use
this program.  A 2708 eprom or equivalent is used to make the MDC DEBUGGER
PROM from the file MDC.DEBUGGER.  This prom is placed in the fourth (usually
empty) prom socket on the MCB.  The debugger software uses a RAM scratch pad
area from about 1400 to 1600 hex,  so this must contain known good ram.


II.     COMMANDS

        The program is entered by typing 'J C00' from the debug prompt.
The following is a list of the commands available to the user.  Only one
letter need be entered to execute a command from the program prompt (':').

        L  --   Loop mode on.  This command turns the loop mode on.  Once
                the loop mode is turned on any reads or write will loop until
                the BREAK button is pressed.  Any attempt to exit the loop
                mode by pressing the reset button could result in destruction
                of the diskette, if the program is writing to the diskette.
                When the BREAK is pressed the loop mode is automatically
                reset.  When looping the error messages are turned off until
                the loop mode is exited.

        N  --   No loop.  Resets loop mode flag.

        R  --   Read from disk.  The user is queried as to the track and
                sector number to read.  The read data is placed in a buffer
                which can be displayed with the Print command.

        W  --   Write to disk.  The user is queried as to the track and sector
                number to write to and the hex pattern to write.

        P  --   Print.  Prints the disk buffer.  Following a read operation
                the P command prints the buffer contents to the console.  In
                printing the buffer the current contents is destroyed, so
                if two successive prints are done the second will always
                show zeros in the buffer.

        A  --   Again.  Executes the last command that was entered.  If the
                last command was a read or a write then the operation is 
                performed again with the same track and sector arguments.

        D  --   Debug.  Returns to the debug enviroment.

        C  --   Commands.  This displays all of the available commands.


                                PAGE 2.



III.    ERRORS

        The following errors can (and probably will) occur during read
and write operations to the disk:

        Invalid request         This indicates some sort of system problem,
                                such as bad scratch ram or possible a faulty
                                eprom.

        Drive not ready         MDC does not see that the drive is ready.

        Disk write protected    If a write operation is attempted and the MDC
                                thinks the diskette is write protected.

        Sector Error            The sector address read from the diskette in
                                sector header did not agree with the sector
                                position.

        Track Error             The track address read from the diskette in
                                sector header did not agree with the head
                                position.

        CRC Error               A cyclic redundancy check error occurred
                                on the sector read.  This indicates one or
                                more data bits in error.


IV.     DEBUG STRATGIES

        It is recommended that an empty formatted diskette be placed 
in drive 0 when using this program.  Certain sectors should be set up (with
a known good system in place) with known patterns (such as AA, 55, 00 and FF
hex).  Then when a malfunctioning board is put in the system to troubleshoot
these sectors can be read and the results compared with what is known to be
on the sectors.
        The loop mode will allow one to get fairly good signals to look at
with a scope.  By looping on reading a sector that is known to contain a 00
pattern, for example, one will be able to look at many of the read circuits
and know immediately if they are working.

                                GOOD LUCK !!

                                Dan W. Altman
                                System Division
                                Test Engineering